
OOPs:
--------
To develop an Application we require a programming language which uses one of the following concepts

1.Procedure oriented programming concepts
2.object oriented programming concepts

1.Procedure oriented programming concepts
 A language is said to be procedure oriented language, if the applications are developed
 with the help of procedures or functions
Examples of Procedure oriented languages: C,Pascal,Cobal,Fortran etc..
2.Object oriented programming concepts

The applications that are developed with the help of Objects and Classes are said to follow
Object oriented programming concepts
  Examples of Procedure oriented languages: Java ,C++,.net etc..

Object:
Any entity that exists physically in the real world which requires some memory will be
 called as an object.Every object will contains some properties and some actions.the properties are the data or information which describes the object and they
are represents by variables.Actions are the tasks or the operations performed by the objects and they are represented by methods

Class:
A Class is a collection of common properties and common actions of a group of objects

A Class can be considered as a plan or a model or a blue print for creating an object.For a class we can creat any number of objects ,with out the class object creation
is not possible.An Object  is an instance of a class.

The Various object oriented concepts are

1) Encapsulations-- putting together variables and methods in a class
2) Inheritance--    code reusability
3) Polymorphism  --  Many forms
4) Abstraction --- some thing which is unknown


1) Encapsulations-- 
-----------------------------

 It is a process of binding the variables and methods in to  single entity (class)

Encapsulation in java is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single unit,
 for example capsule i.e. mixed of several medicines.


 polymorphism:
----------------------------
Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms. The most common use of polymorphism in OOP occurs when a 
parent class reference is used to refer to a child class object.

Following concepts demonstrate different types of polymorphism in java.
1) Method Overloading (compile time)
2) Method Overriding (Runtime)

Method Definition:
A method is a set of code which is referred to by name and can be called (invoked) at any point in a program simply by utilizing the method’s name.

1)Method Overloading:
In Java, it is possible to define two or more methods of same name in a class, provided that there argument list or parameters are different. 
This concept is known as Method Overloading.

2) Method Overriding

Child class has the same method as of base class. In such cases child class overrides the parent class method without even touching the source code of the 
base class. 
This feature is known as method overriding.


2) Inharitance
----------------------------------------
acquiring the members from one class to another class..

Inheritance can be defined as the process where one class acquires the properties (methods and fields) of another. 
With the use of inheritance the information is made manageable in a hierarchical order.

The class which inherits the properties of other is known as subclass (derived class, child class) and the class whose properties are inherited 
is known as superclass (base class, parent class).

single inharitance ( one parent class and one child class)

 and multilevel inharitance  (one child class and one child class and one or more intermediate clases[acts as a both parent and child class])


Note: Multiple inheritance is not supported in java through class.


super keyword

In Java, super keyword is used to refer to immediate parent class of a class. In other words super keyword is used by a subclass whenever it need to 
refer to its immediate super class.



Abstract class in Java:
----------------------------------------

A class that is declared with abstract keyword, is known as abstract class in java. It can have abstract and non-abstract methods (method with body).

Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user.

Another way, it shows only important things to the user and hides the internal details.

